# Home automation using IOT raspberry pi
The Internet of things technology is entering our home as well as in industry. Here at Microtronics, we have designed and developed an IOT based Home Automation system using Raspberry Pi. This project does the task of automation of home appliances. Also, using this project, any person can activate or deactivate home appliances using the internet. And the most important feature of this project is that these devices can be controlled through any place in the world. This project is used in controlling home appliances via WiFi technology. This electronic kit can be connected to any home appliance. In this project, Raspberry Pi is used to control 4 relays. And we have connected a DC fan and a DC bulb to the output. You can also connect AC bulb/fan or any other AC device at the output of these Relays. Also, we have used an LCD display in this project which displays various messages. Raspberry Pi in this circuit receives IOT commands sent by the user using an IOT web interface. Then the Raspberry Pi gives commands to the output devices using the Relay interface. Talking about Raspberry Pi, it is the smallest computer that performs many of the tasks performed by a computer. The relay driver module is interfaced with Raspberry Pi to control the devices. Cloud interface is used to control these devices using the internet. In this way, we have completed home appliances over the internet using Raspberry Pi. Python programming language is used in this Raspberry Pi project.
